# Paramice
An enriched environment for training mice

The brain evolved to afford animals with the ability to move. It is thus not surprising that virtually the entire brain is involved in learning, executing,and adapting behaviour. The classic approach to study the neural control of movement involves training animals to perform a task in the lab, and then simultaneously recording brain activity and the animal’s behaviour.More recently, several groups have started to design apparatuses to enable animals to learn behavioural tasks in their home cages (see examples in the References). This approach presents two advantages. First, it improves the well-being of animalsby providing them with one more (rather exciting) piece of enrichment. Second, it also saves experimentalists’time, both by having animals “trainthemselves”and by helpingidentify those that are more adept at the behaviour of interest.The goal of this project is for you to design, build, and test a home enclosure to allow house-grouped mice to learn a behavioural task on their own. Similar to the system by Erskine et al.and Ackelset al., your “paramice”will comprise a big two-story home cage, with the top floor having a room where mice can enter to practice a task–access to the top floor can be given through a ramp.Your home enclosure should only allow one mouse at atimeto enter the “task room”and, ideally, the task should be implemented in modular way so it can be easily switched. We are interested in several tasks, including a joystick task, or a licking task (details on these will be provided during our meetings).To encourage mice to play with the task, successful trialswill be rewarded with a small volume of liquid,as is standard in the field.One final requiredfunctionalityis tracking how each individual mouse learns the task. For that,consider that each mouse will be implanted with an RFID tag, which will allow you to know who is playing the taskso you can log their performance. The logs should be easily accessible by an experimenter at any given moment in time,and safely stored to disk.By building this“paramice”you will help improve the well-being or research mice and enable new, more naturalistic studies of motor controlin rodents.

Paramice system is controlled by a Raspberry pi with a slave arduino.
In this repostry there are two scripts: 
- mRFID.ino is the sketch that will instruct the arduino. It is based on Annaane's multi RFID project https://github.com/Annaane/MultiRfid.
- main.py is run by the raspberry and will control the whole system, opening and closing gates, initiating the tasks and storing data on the performances of mice.

